So far, we've just been texture mapping
spheres with the Earth texture.
And there's a couple things to note.
One of them is, the way that we described
those textures is called equirectangular.
So if you wanted to find more
images that have that kind of
mapping that you can map onto a sphere,
you can search equirectangular.
You can also use the term
panoramic images,
sometimes you'll find
this kind of mapping.
Sometimes it's also called HDR maps.
And that's because when we work with HDR
maps, for example, for a game engine or
in a rendering engine, it's quite
often this sorta spherical texture.
So there's lots of different
terms that you could search for
these, another term would be
environment map textures.
And you can find these different
textures like this, and
then you can drag those in and apply them.
Just be aware of licensing, obviously.
And then the other thing
that came up is just,
what about geometries that
are not just a sphere?
How do we map textures onto those,
and how is it a little bit different?
So, here's a demo that I
just quickly whipped up.
So if we go into the repository and
we go into the src/demos,
you'll see a few new textures.
You'll see brick-diffuse, and
that's the texture of this brick.
And so when we're actually
looking at this output here,
which I'll walk through a little bit.
When we're looking at this,
it's a seamless texture
that's been repeated across
the surface of this torus.
And so that's the diffuse,
diffuse is just another way of
saying the the color of the texture.
It's kind of the the term that we use for
for color.
There's another type called normal.
So this is a normal map, which I'll show
a little bit about how this works, and
how it changes the look of a material.
But it's a texture that goes
along quite often with diffuse.
And it gives us the information
of the surface geometry, almost.
So this gives us some information
about how the surface geometry
will react to light as the light
hits it and bounces off of it.
And so that can be really useful for
adding a little bit more detail and
a little bit more reaction to light.
And so when you actually go looking for
textures for 3D things, generally,
you'll look up 3D textures.
You'll look up maybe it's called
physically based texturing.
So you can search physically
based texturing or PBR,
physically based rendering, PBR textures.
And you can find packs of textures
that include diffuse, normal.
Sometimes it includes other textures like
metalness, which is just like we've been
defining metalness as 0 to 1 or
roughness as 0 to 1.
Sometimes for certain materials,
you might have a material that's
partly metal and partly rough.
And so for example, if you have
chipped paint, and it's in a texture,
Or even chipped metal
would be a better example.
Where part of the surface
is really metallic, and
then part of it is really rough.
And so this is where we would
use a sort of metalness map.
So metalness texture map,
which would define
which areas of the texture are metallic,
and which areas are not metallic.
But it's hard to sometimes find them
just on Google Images, you might have to
actually search for things like rock
texture pbr or something like that.
And then here you might find
some stone and rock textures.
So yeah, this freepbr.com
is a site I've used before.
It has some nice textures for
different types of surfaces.
So actually getting into the demo,
the demo is just here, it's at the bottom,
torus-material.js.
But I'll just open it up locally, And
just walk through a few of the changes.
So the first obvious change is that
it's using a torus geometry instead of
a sphere geometry.
And so the torus geometry, you can specify
the outer radius size, and then the inner
radius, which is gonna be the thickness
of this donut that we're making.
And then we specify the segments,
the divisions, which is gonna make it less
detailed or more detailed,
like high poly versus low poly.
And then we actually get into
loading some textures, and
here is a little bit different.
We load a texture just like
we did before with the Earth.
We do load with the URL, which is, in this
case, brick-diffuse which is the color.
But here, we're gonna say we want
this texture to wrap seamlessly.
So this line that we have here is saying,
make it so that along the horizontal and
along the vertical, make it so
that this texture wraps seamlessly.
The default, if we didn't have this,
we would see it would start to get
sort of stretched in this weird way.
And that's because the texture's
just getting stretched,
and it starts to look pretty ugly.
And so you need repeat wrapping for it
to seamlessly repeat across the surface.
And then this last thing we're doing here
is, we're changing the repeat value.
So without this, it's going to
just take this texture and try and
wrap it around the mesh just as
if we've taken wrapping paper.
I don't know, you're wrapping a gift, and
you're wrapping it around this object.
But what we really want is,
we want to get rid of this stretching
that's happening in the brick.
And so
we're gonna say something like map.repeat,
which is a vector two, so we can say set.
We can make it repeat twice
along the horizontal plane, or
twice as much as it is along the vertical
plane, or even three times or four times.
And there's no exact number we can really
choose here that would work across
the entire torus.
Because you'll see the bricks that
are close to the center here are gonna be
a little smaller.
And the bricks that are close to the edge
here are gonna be a little bigger.
So if you really wanted this
torus to be perfectly mapped,
you might have to open it up
in Cinema 4D or Blender, and
actually work with these coordinates and
things like that.
But for now,
it's okay just doing something like this.
And then because it's a vector two,
you can say multiplyScalar.
And you can chain these methods together,
because it always returns the vector two.
And so now I could say multiplyScalar(4),
and that's just gonna make it repeat
more or less depending on
what number I put in here.
So this is just scaling the repeat vector,
which is gonna repeat
the texture in two dimensions,
in the x and y, and so that's this here.
And then the next sorta
chunk is the normal map.
So we load it in the same way
we apply repeat wrapping.
And then we copy the vector two so that
the normal map matches the same repeat
values, so
that it's just gonna line up perfectly.
And then the only other thing we really
do is, in our MeshStandardMaterial,
we can tweak the roughness and metalness,
and we pass in the normal map,
we pass in the map.
And so what you'll actually see, I'll
make this a bit bigger so we can see it.
But when we look at the light
as it hits these rocks,
we can really start to see the light sort
of bouncing off the edge of the rocks and
the edge of the stone and
brick and the sort of texture.
And so if I was to take the normal
map out of this material, and
now we look at it from a glancing angle,
we look at it from an edge,
it's just a perfectly smooth torus.
And that's not what we want, we want
to actually start to see the detail of
the brick, so
that's what the normal map gives us.
One other thing worth mentioning
with this kind of approach.
Depending on where you get your
normal maps, might be set up for
a different engine, it might be set up for
Unity or something else.
And they might be using a slightly
different coordinate system.
And it might end up looking like this,
where we look at our texture,
and we're like, well,
we can see the detail of the brick, but
it looks weird, and
it almost looks like it's inverted.
Cuz if we look at this, we would imagine
when the light hits the brick from there,
we would imagine this side
of the brick to be lit up.
But in reality, it's like the other
side of the brick has lit up.
So it's almost there,
it almost looks okay, but
everything looks a little bit backwards or
a little bit inverted.
And that's because maybe some engines
will use an inverted y channel for
the normal map.
And so to change that you just pass
in this thing called normalScale,
which is a vector two.
And you either use a positive or
negative value as the y,
depending on which one looks more correct.
And you can also use the same value to
reduce the overall strength of this map.
So by multiplying it by a scalar value,
which is what we're doing here,
normal strength,
we're making it really intense,
like trying to make these
brick really stand out.
Or making it really reduced, so
really reducing that effect, so
that it's a much more subtle change.
So yeah,
that's just a bit of a recap of texturing.
But also, how do we texture
things that are not just spheres?
And if we had an object that's a 3D model,
like a physical bust or
some sort of maybe a person's character,
or a character design or
something like that, or
an object like a coffee cup.
Then you'd actually have to texture map
it in a 3D software like Blender or
Cinema 4D, or ask your your 3D artists do
the texturing and to do the UV mapping.
So that when you load it into three.js,
it can just be applied with a texture and
it should just all work.